here in Crystal Palace in South London
you can still see the first dinosaur
exhibition that was ever built anywhere
in the world
the sculptures were unveiled in 1854 it
was the start of an obsession that we've
never got over but it wasn't long before
the science behind these reconstructions
had lost credibility even by the end of
the 19th century our ideas about
dinosaurs have changed so much that
these models were already looked upon
with scorn this Megalosaurus for
instance ashamed walking on all four
legs but we now know he would have been
bipedal he would have stood on just his
hind legs and his four legs would have
been quite small and lifted right up off
the ground when the first Iguanodon was
discovered only one thumb bone was found
say paleontologists thought it must have
been a horn but Iguanodon didn't have a
horn it's very easy to walk amongst
these massive models and to laugh at the
19th century idea of what a dinosaur was
like we now know so much more we've
worked out a phenomenal amount about the
dinosaurs but how have we done that how
do you start to get close to animals
that lived hundreds of millions of years
ago
from 19th century London to 21st century
Los Angeles a hundred and fifty years
after the first ever dinosaur exhibition
I want to know how we can be sure that
we're now getting it right so I've come
to LA's Museum of Natural History the
museum is undergoing major redevelopment
at the moment and at the center of it
all is a multi-million dollar new
dinosaur exhibit Louise Chiappa is
director of the museum's dinosaur
Institute and curator of the new
exhibition
I'm very well nice to meet you likewise
you'll be packing the exhibition with
everything we know about dinosaurs from
the biggest to the smallest with the
latest science on how they looked moved
and interacted they beyond the fact that
the exhibition is obviously about
dinosaurs what's the idea behind it it's
really how do we know what we know about
dinosaurs so you're not just presenting
facts to people you're actually showing
how you got to that knowledge yes how do
we translate the evidence that we find
in in the field into scientific
knowledge so can I get a sneak preview
sure of course yes our knowledge of
dinosaurs has been transformed over
recent years and that means that when it
opens
Louisa's exhibition will aim to be the
most scientifically accurate
representation of dinosaurs ever the
science will be brought to life by a
wide and varied cast of dinosaurs right
now the exhibition hall is a building
site we are approaching the centerpiece
of the exhibit a large platform that
will support three Tyrannosaurus Rex
what we call a growth series of
Tyrannosaurus Rex because a complete
t-rex skeleton has never been found
Lewis's team will have to reconstruct
the missing bones then he'll have to
choose poses that reflect the latest
scientific thinking on how these animals
stood and moved
and with three tier X's on a single
platform he'll even be considering how
they interacted all this for animals
that went extinct 65 million years ago
you